Previously you encountered some basic
methods for representing words as
numbers and how these simple
representations fail to carry meaning.
Now, I will introduce word embeddings,
which are vectors that's carrying meaning.
First, I'll give you
an intuition of how word vectors
can carry the meaning of words.
Consider a horizontal
number line like this.
Words on the left are considered
negative in some way and
words on the right
are considered positive in some.
Words that's are much more negative
are further to the left and
words that are much more positive
are further to the right.
You could store their positions as
numbers in a single vector of length 1.
Notice that you can now use any
decimal value instead of 0 and 1.
This is quite useful in that now
you can say that's happy and
excited are more similar to each other
compared to with the word paper.
Because the number representing happy is
closer to the number representing excited.
You can extend this by adding
a vertical number line,
words that are higher on this line
are more concrete physical objects.
Whereas words lower on this
line are more abstract ideas.
Again, you can arrange each word
along both of these number lines and
see how words that are both more
concrete and positive like puppy and
kitten are closer together.
You can store the two numbers that
represent their position on the two number
lines as a vector of length 2.
What you've done here is to represent the
vocabulary of words with a small vector
of length 2.
You gained a little bit of meaning
while also giving up some precision.
This vector representation is less
precise than one hot vectors in that
it's possible for two words to be located
on the same point in this 2D plot,
like snake and spider for example.
What you created just now is
an example of a word embedding.
Word embeddings represent words
in a vector form that's both has
a relatively low dimension saying
the hundreds to load thousands.
Making it practical for calculations and
carries the meaning of words making
it possible to determine how
semantically closed words are.
iIn general purpose vocabularies,
the vector for forest would usually be
similar to the vector for tree, was very
dissimilar to the vector for tickets.
You will visualize such similarities
as part of this week's assignment.
It also makes it possible
to work out analogies,
such as finding the missing word in
Paris is to France as Rome is to?
Encoding the meaning of words is also the
first step towards encoding the meaning of
entire sentences, which is the foundation
for more complex NLP use cases,
like question-answering and translation.
Creating word embeddings is one of
the main objectives of this module.
In this week's lecture,
you will Implement word embeddings
from simpler to more advanced methods.
You'll also begin to build upon
the simpler representation.
Options finally a notes on terminology.
In theory all vector representations
of words, including one-hot vectors and
word embedding vectors
are known as word vectors.
But the term word vector and
word embeddings are used as well to
refer to word embedding vectors.
So don't be surprised if you also
see these terms in the wild.
Now that you can transform
words into integers and
vectors specifically one-hot vectors and
word embeddings, you can explain
why word embeddings are better suited
to real-world pplications of NLP.
Up next, you will create word embeddings.